# Cellular respiration
Our cells need energy; this should be obvious. You might think that we get this energy directly from the glucose in our food... and you'd be wrong. 
Glucose definitely holds energy, but it's not in a form that is usable. Cells can only use energy from a molecule called ATP (adenosine triphosphate), which stores short-term energy. It's kind of like a "currency" for energy, and our cells would only accept that type of currency.
Our cells need a way to make ATP from the glucose, which is what a process called *cellular respiration* does.

Cellular respiration has three steps: 

1. *Glycolysis:* Glycolysis is an anaerobic process, meaning it doesn't require Oxygen to function. Glucose is a 6 Carbon sugar, and glycolysis splits that glucose into two pyruvates, which are molecules with 3 Carbons each. However, the energy required to oxidize that glucose (oxidation is a fancy term for losing electrons, which usually breaks down a molecule) is 2 ATP. The energy released from breaking down that carbon is used to reduce (reduction is a fancy term for gaining electrons, which usually builds up a molecule) a molecule called NAD+ to become NADH, which will be important later. The remaining energy makes 4 ATP (each made by combining a phosphate group with ADP, which is adenosine diphosphate). In total, we have 2 NADH, 2 pyruvates (which, as a reminder, are just 3 Carbon sugars) and 2 net ATP (2 spent, 4 gained)
2. *Pyruvate Oxidation:* As you can (hopefully) guess from the name, these pyruvates get oxidized and broken down a bit more. First, each one gets oxidized to become acetate, a 2 Carbon molecule. Now, there is a bit of an issue - We started off with 6 Carbons, and now there are only 2 from each acetate, which makes 4! So where do the other 2 Carbons go? With the released energy from oxidizing the pyruvates, each of the 2 removed Carbons reacts with Oxygen (obtained from breathing, which you should probably know how to do, otherwise that's deeply concerning) to make CO2, or Carbon Dioxide. This is a waste product and gets breathed out. There are 2 CO2 molecules made, one for each carbon. The acetates, meanwhile, combine with another enzyme called CoA to make Acetyl CoA (this synthesis also requires some of that released energy). With that last bit of remaining energy, 2 more NAD+ get reduced to NADH.
2. *Krebs Cycle:* This is also known as the Citric Acid Cycle. This cycle runs twice, once per Acetyl CoA. Each time, the Acetyl CoA combines with a molecule called Oxaloacetate to form citric acid. A series of reactions occur to remove the 2 carbons that are from Acetyl Coa (and from the original glucose molecule) and turn those 2 carbons into CO2, which is a waste product and exhaled. The released energy from those reactions is used to reduce 3 NAD+ molecules to NADH, 1 FAD (a molecule similar to NAD+, and has the same purpose: for being an electron carrier) to FADH2, regenerate the Oxaloacetate, and with the little bit of energy left, synthesize one ATP molecule. This cycle runs twice, so it total, our outputs from the Krebs cycle are: 6 NADH, 2 FADH2, 2 ATP, and 4 CO2.
3. *Electron Transport Chain*
